This is a README for the "createpkg" style templates in the
OpenCSW subversion tree. It gets copied to a brand new directory, when it
is created with "make createpkg-softwarenamehere"

CONTENTS:
  Initial Setup
  Make Targets
  Make Timestamps

Initial Setup
--------------------

The first thing you should do, after creating your new directory with
  "make  createpkg-softwarenamehere"
is to cd into the directory and do

  svn status

With this, you will notice that no files in the directory are actually checked
into subversion yet.  You should edit (or remove) the files as you deem 
apropriate. In particular, copy the speciifc Makefile.xxx to Makefile, and
remove the others if you wish. Then,  

  svn add   filename(s)

the ones you want to keep in the repository.

If you are doing a general-case binary build package, then you will next need
to do the following:

1. Set up your environment variables as appropriate, and/or
  set the appropriate variables in Makefile

2. (if 'gmake extract' does not work),
   mkdir build, then extract the source tree of whatever you are building,
   under the build dir.

4. gmake

You also have a choice of some optional subtargets, such as
  make  {configure,build,package,clean,reallyclean}. See "Make Targets"
  lower down for more details.

If you wish a patch set to be applied to the source before configure, create
a file called "patchfile.preconf" and put them there.

If you wish a patch set to be applied to the source AFTER configure, but
before compiling (for example, to hand-hack config.h) create a file called
"patchfile.postconf"


DONT FORGET to update all fields in the pkginfo file, and also to create
appropriate copyright, depend and prototype files.
If you dont know what to put into
the prototype file, an initial build will most likely bomb out, after creating
one for you in build/*/cswstage/prototype.




Make Targets
--------------------
The makefiles are current a work in progress. The most fully developed
at the moment is "Makefile.lib". 

Currently supported makefile targets are:

 * extract
 * sparc-32 sparc64 i386-32 i386-64
 * configure-(ARCH)-(32/64)
 * build-(ARCH)-(32/64)
 * stage-(ARCH)-(32/64)
 * clean
 * distclean
 * reallyclean
 * package

Note that there is a single shared upstream source tree, that should be
extracted under a "build" directory.
The "clean" and "distclean" targets, are only pass-through targets, that
will call the upstream source tree makefile with that argument.


There are also assorted internal makefile targets which probably wont interest
you. What MAY interest you, are the timestamp markers, described below.

Make Timestamps
--------------------

Each major makefile target, has a "done" file marker. They are kept in
dotfiles under the "build" directory.
For example, the target "configure-sparc-32", will create a file,
  build/.configure-sparc-32.done
when successfully completed.

If you wish to force a rebuild of a target, remove the corresponding
".done" file, and do the make again.

